ok so let's now move on to the UI we're
going to start with the main window and
that's what's obviously defined in our
main.fxml file so i'm going to open
our main.fxml now our UI is always going
to consist of a table that occupies the
entire window so an anchor pane or border
pane layout would work so let's actually
use a border pane since it's simple to
use and also worked with it before I'm
going to change our grid pane to border pane
so let's start by the deleting some
of these unused imports and actually
delete grid pane because we are about to change that to a border
pane so added that again automatically so
change to border pane and remove the
import and we need to remove these
properties that aren't appropriate for border
pane so we just got the basic border
pane defined now ok now since the table
as I mentioned will occupy the entire
window let's add it to the center
position so I'm going to add that so i'm
going to do a center....
and mentioned in the slide for the challenge we're
going to use a table view control now we
want to access that in code so let's
add it and also assigned and ID to it as
well so within the center table view and
...
alright so define the table
columns using the columns element and
the table column class so will set the
text property for each table column to
the text that we want the column heading
to display so start by doing that so
this is under the table view
I actually set this up like that so within
the table view itself
we're gonna have columns
and within the columns you are going to have
a table column for each one for each one of
our fields it's going to be....
...
...then within that we
want to actually have a cell value
factory so do the first one and will
do all of these and we'll talk
about it.....
...
alright now because I wanted to take
advantage of data binding and have the
table automatically updated when a
contact is added deleted or changed we
needed to assign a cell value factory
for each column and I've assign
instance of the property value factory
class which is specifically designed to
be used with the cell value
factory of a table column this is how we
use data binding with tables ultimately
and we assigned
self-explanatory labels to each column
where the value assigned to the property
field of property field value must match
the name of the corresponding field in
the contact class since this is the
field we want to tie in to each table
column for example for the first name
column we assign property the
value first name
this is the code in line 13 which
matches the name of the field in the
contact class come back to contact class
theirs our first name field so i have to
actually match for this to actually work
via data binding now once we
associated the table with our contacts
list the table column will notice when
the first name value of a contact
changes and we'll update the value is
displaying in other words you would have
to explicitly update the table ourselves
which is pretty cool
alright so at this point let's try
running the application to make sure
that everything is working as it should
be at this point so I'm going to run it
run our main we can expand a little bit
and we can see the table column heading
and the text here that actually
says no content in table now you saw
that the column widths aren't ideal but
we won't actually fix that right now but
the next step will be the UI that allows
a user to add a contact so we need
something to display in the table though
note that we could load some dummy data in our
contacts data class just to get ourselves
started and that's often how i
recommend you do it when you're
developing a real-world application but
here we're just going to keep it simple
and start from scratch now we need a
dialogue that allows us to provide the
information for a contact and a way to
get to the dialogue so if you go back
now and look at the challenge image
for the application we're trying to
generate we see that we've got a menu
there with a single item called contacts
when we pull down that menu will also
want an add item to appear so let's
add that menu in this item now i'm going
to put the menu into the top position of
the border pane so go back to our code
and I'll close this down back to our main dot
FXML so I'm going to add this at the top
so we are actually going to put it in the
top part of the border pane top position so
...
...top
position is going to be our menu but we do
have one more step here we have to add
an action handler to open the dialogue
so let's do that add it here
...
we'll get it showing in red to indicate
that we need to add that let's go ahead
and do that i'll just take a copy of
that and go back to our controller and
we'll add the action handler....
...
what I might do is click on add to be
consistent I did say its going to be add so
do add instead of new but either will suffice
alright now for this dialogue
that we're going to get to pop up when
the show add contact dialogue
method is invoked when the menu selected
we need to write that fxml
first let's create a new fxml file in the
same package as the existing UI classes so
i'm just going to because the main .fXML
is in there i'm just going to add in the
same place under sample new file will
call this one contact dialogue dot FXML
so for this one we're going to be using
a dialogue pane so that's going to be
the root layout now we also have to
create a controller for the dialogue but
we'll do that shortly
let's just add the dialogue first so....
...
...and we
also need to add some xml
namespace xml....
....
...
ok that should be our dialogue so let's create
that controller as i mentioned as well
and that will also be in the sample package
right click new java class and add our
contact controller if we go back there
to our contact dialogue . FXML it's now
happy that we've got the controller
associated alright so firstly with this
dialogue we need to add some
instructions for the user in the header
text area
let's start by adding that...
...
...now below that we
need to several labels and fields all
lined up nicely
so what we're going to do in that content
is going to add a great pane for the
dialogue panes content area so we'll
start with content...
....
...then within
the grid pane
we need to add for each one of our
fields a label and a text field so
firstly first one will be label...
...
....
....so that's our
...
ok so i set the grid panes v gap and
h gap properties to 10 now for each
piece of contact information you can see
I added a label followed by an input field
the text field now i'm using a text
field for all the values possibly you
might have considered using a text area
for the notes value but since we're
displaying each contact in the table we
want the notes to be kept short and for
that reason I'm using a text field but
in a real world application you might
will limit the number of characters the
user can enter into the notes field
we might not display the notes in the
table at all you know maybe the user
will have to click something to see the
notes and that way we could allow them
to enter longer notes using a text area
obviously there's a multiple there are
multiple ways that we could have
designed the UI and you saw that I also
assigned an fxml id to each field because
we need to get the values the user
inputs ultimately to be able to process
them alright so let's finish the video
here in the next video will start
writing the code for the action handler
that will show this dialogue see you
in the next video